website/integrations: add certificate instructions to apache guacamole (#13684)
goauthentik/authentik: website/integrations/services/apache-guacamole/index.mdx

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Self Signed Certificates

If using a self signed certificate it is required to add the certificate of the associated Certificate Authority to `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt` and `/opt/java/openjkd/jre/lib/security/cacerts` on your Apache Guacamole deployment.

#### adding Certificate Authority certificate as trusted in `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt`

1. Copy the certificate of the Certificate Authority (e.g. `<CA_certificate>.crt`) to the `/usr/local/share/ca-certificates/` directory. Ensure that the filetype is `.crt`.

2. To add the certificate as trusted in `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt`, use the following command:

```shell
update-ca-certificates

> ```

Reviewer: This part depends on the distribution.

On Synology you have to copy the ca to `/usr/syno/etc/security-profile/ca-bundle-profile/ca-certificates/` first. Then you can do `update-ca-certificates.sh`

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Self Signed Certificates

> If using a self signed certificate it is required to add the certificate of the associated Certificate Authority to `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt` and `/opt/java/openjkd/jre/lib/security/cacerts` on your Apache Guacamole deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using a self-signed certificate, it is necessary to incorporate the certificate of the corresponding Certificate Authority into both the `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt` file and the `/opt/java/openjkd/jre/lib/security/cacerts` keystore on your Apache Guacamole deployment. This ensures that the self-signed certificate is trusted by both the system and the Java runtime environment used by Guacamole.
```

What do you think?

#### Adding Certificate Authority certificate as trusted in `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt`

:::note
This section depends on the operating system hosting Apache Guacamole.
:::

> For _Debian_ based operating systems:

Reviewer 2: I feel like this would be better as a H5, but there might be too much headers and cause confusion. What do you think?

> 1. Copy the certificate of the Certificate Authority (e.g. `<CA_certificate>.crt`) to the `/usr/local/share/ca-certificates/` directory. Ensure that the filetype is `.crt`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Copy the certificate of the Certificate Authority (e.g. `<CA_certificate>.crt`) to the `/usr/local/share/ca-certificates/` directory. Ensure that the file extension is `.crt`.
```

2. To add the certificate as trusted in `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt`, use the following command:

```shell
update-ca-certificates
```

For _Synology_ systems:

> 1. Copy the certificate of the Certificate Authority (e.g. `<CA_certificate>.crt`) to the `/usr/syno/etc/security-profile/ca-bundle-profile/ca-certificates/` directory. Ensure that the filetype is `.crt`.

Reviewer 2: So you'd need to SSH into the machine, can this be mentioned? IIRC you also need to toggle a setting in the Admin Interface to allow ssh

Reviewer: That is correct.

Author: > So you'd need to SSH into the machine, can this be mentioned? IIRC you also need to toggle a setting in the Admin Interface to allow ssh

I've added a mention of which machine the certificate is being copied to. I didn't want to mention SSH because it's assuming how they manage their infrastructure. They might be connecting via console, ssh, executing change via ansible etc.

Do you think it's clear enough with the changes I've made?

2. To add the certificate as trusted in `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt`, use the following command:

```shell
update-ca-certificates.sh
```

> #### Adding Certificate Authority certificate to `/opt/java/openjkd/jre/lib/security/cacerts`

Reviewer 2: So this would be on the Guac node / container / pod? Can we mention it here just in case?

Reviewer 2: Like mention it again I mean

1. To export the certificate of the Certificate Authority, use the following command:

```shell
openssl pkcs12 -export -in <CA_certificate>.crt -inkey <CA_certificate>.key -out <CA_certificate>.p12 -passout pass:<password>
```

2. To import the certificate to the `/opt/java/openjdk/jre/lib/security/cacerts` keystore, use the following command:

```shell
keytool -importkeystore -srckeystore <CA_certificate>.p12 -srcstoretype PKCS12 -keystore /opt/java/openjdk/jre/lib/security/cacerts -deststorepass <destination_store_password> -nopromt -srcstorepass <password>
```

:::note

> More information on the keytool command can be found in the [Oracle documentation.](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/specs/man/keytool.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
More information on the `keytool` command can be found in the [Oracle documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/specs/man/keytool.html).
```

> More information on the keytool command can be found in the [Oracle documentation.](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/specs/man/keytool.html)

Reviewer 2: Is there a way to not pin what I assume is Java/JDK/JRE/Whatever 17?

Reviewer 2: (in the url)

Author: There might be another suitable documentation page for the command. I'll have a look tomorrow

Author: I've updated to the most recent Java release (21) but all the oracle documentation has the same URL setup. There's no static keytool documentation. But v21 isn't end of life until 2031 so this should be fine for now

#### Adding Certificate Authority certificate to `/opt/java/openjkd/jre/lib/security/cacerts`

> 1. To export the certificate of the Certificate Authority, use the following command on the Certificate Authority host:

Reviewer 2: > on the CA host

what does that mean?
